---
title:  To Sell Is Human
date:   2017-03-04 01:56:53 -0500
layout: post
---

_Notes from Dan Pink’s [To Sell Is
Human](https://www.amazon.com/Sell-Human-Surprising-Moving-Others/dp/1594631905)_

#### Moving People

Selling happens off the used-car lot, too. Its about moving people to part with
their valuable resources (e.g. attention, time, effort, or cash) in a mutually
beneficial way.

Selling is serving. Its about identifying and filling a need. It requires
creative though, design thinking, and empathy.

#### Empathy

Solve the right problem by putting yourself in the other person’s shoes. What
are their motivations and considerations. What are they trying to achieve?
Agitate instead of irritating.

*Irritation:* Challenging people to do something *we* want them to do.

*Agitation:* Challenging people to do something *they* want to do.

Use improv rules to encourage open, optimistic, and empathetic communication. 1)
Hear offers, 2) say “Yes and”, and 3) Make your partner look good.

#### Positivity

Negative emotions are a biological adaptation to *narrow* focus and propel
behavior towards immediate survival. Fear, stress, or anger compel you to act
immediately. On the other hand, positive emotions *broaden* our focus and
encourage receptivity and creativity. Both are incredibly valuable. Perpetual
optimism is unrealistic and harmful. Try to match the emotion to the situation.

Pump yourself up by asking questions. Don’t say “I will”. Explain to yourself
*why* your “Will I?” questions will be achieved in order to generate concrete
reasons and actions for your success.

Positive thinkers explain negative experiences as temporal, specific, and
external as opposed to permeant, pervasive, and personal. The more your
explanatory style for your own setbacks falls into the first category, the more
likely you are to persist in the face of adversity.

#### Clarity

Thinking is hard, so help others do it. Frame the problem, provide relevant
information, and provide helpful solutions.

Problem Finding is more important that problem solving. In other words, you have
to ask the right questions — empathetically, patiently, comprehensively — in
order to find the best solutions.

Frame problems correctly by creating *contrast*. *Curate* choices to prevent
decision fatigue. Focus on *potential* as opposed to achievement. Be *honest*
about positives and negatives.

Most importantly, create offramps. Don’t just *tell* people what they want,
*show* them how to get it. Specially, with steps and instructions.

#### The Pitch

You’ve empathetically asked the right questions. You creatively solved the right
problem. Now you need to convince others you’re right. The Pitch.

Brevity, clarity, and wit are all important for a great pitch. Find clarity by
distilling your pitch down to the length of a tweet. Even better, a single word.

If you’re underlying argument is strong, consider asking a question rather than
making a statement. We prefer to come to our own conclusions.

Make sure your title is either obviously useful or mysteriously intriguing.

Try the Pixar pitch:

> Once upon a time ____________________. Every day, __________. One day
> __________. Because of that __________. Because of that __________. Until
finally, __________.

#### Service

Be *personal*, and *purposeful*. Focus on the individual. Be specific about
*why* something is beneficial or necessary.

Imagine every person you’re dealing with is your grandma; regard them with the
utmost kindness, patience, and respect.

Be able to answer — emphatically — “Yes” to these two questions:

1) Will what I’m selling improve this person’s life?

2) When the interaction is over, will the world be a better place?
